Hello guys in the last lesson we started learning how to create our first WordPress loop.
We learned what love is and what are the advantages of using it within WordPress themes.
The WordPress loop was responsible for creating this section here which shows one of your posts and
actually this is a page and also this post on the blog page.
In this lesson you're going to learn how to make some pages look different things not all of the pages
on the site will be created equal.
So just a quick recap.
In the last lesson month we had a problem yet to be solved on a visit home page for example.
We see that it brings us a static page showing empty categories.
The same thing happens on the About Us page and on the Contact page.
But we want things to look different.
The home page is going to be very different from the other pages.
It's going to have a sidebar and U.S. services slide a map on the other hand the about a space is not
going to have any of that.
There will be no side bar no slide No.
But how are you going to do that.
Well we have to bring to you a new concept called template pages.
There are two ways you can create such template pages.
One of them is creating new page B files with the name of our business.
For example if I want to create a specific page just to load the About Us page so that it looks totally
different from the other pages I would have to create a specific file just for the About Us page.
The same goes for the contact page and for our home page as I'm going to show you now.
The home page is showing content created in the administration come coming from a static page called
home but it must be different.
As I go over to our Sublime Text and we want to create inside the theme folder and you file let's save
it.
And here is the magic the name of this file needs to be paid each hyphen and this lug of the base to
which this file refers to.
If you're wondering where you can find that slug.
I'm going to show you right now so you can find it when you edit the page right here.
The only exception is the base that should be the home page.
You can see it's like here but this love is home.
So for the home page this name is going to be page hyphen home page B if it weren't for the About Us
page to the page hyphen about hyphen us that page B sings about hyphen us.
Is this like for the About Us page.
What we want should be show on this home page well to make this faster let's copy the contents of the
index that page B file the new file.
We still have a culture to get head function to get for that function.
And in the middle a dynamic area that's go ahead so I can copy everything space everything here.
And just for you to notice the difference you're going to delete that too and create a paragraph in
its place.
I'd say and reload the page
look see that these pages are very different from the others.
This is a page created used in a specific file called Page hyphen home that page B This page will have
a logo services Ciber.
Matt Kopp right the way is defined in our initial layouts remember.
But what about the about us page.
What can we do to create it.
We can use the same strategy or just start that is creating a file with the page name in it the same
at the page hyphen about a hyphen us that page B.
So let's create this file.
It's copy the same content from the index page peafowl
and should make this page look different.
We want to delete the div tags and sections we don't want on this page.
I selected this content.
Now when you refresh the page you'll see that it will be totally different.
Now the About Us page as well as the home and blog pages are different.
Another way to the same thing we just did is to create a template page file.
The difference between creating a template file and the file with the page name for example page about
is page home etc..
Is that template pages can be used as often as we want for whatever pages we want.
For example I could create a page template that could serve at the same time for both the About Us page
and for the content page.
In doing so these two pages would have an identical structure.
I'm not saying that the content will be the same.
Many people struggle to understand that the content won't be the same but the positioning of the elements
for example will be the same.
For example if a page has a left sidebar the other page will also have a left sidebar but the content
of those sidebars can be totally different.
When you see a concrete example of this.
But in the next lesson for now as an exercise you can go ahead and try to create a pitch be template
page for the contact page.
You think you can do that I think.
So think of this only as an exercise.
OK.
Seems to be adopting another strategy to create both the contacts and the About Us page.
In our next lesson.
So once you then have become the.